[MUSIC]
>> Speaker 1: So something really
important to note here is that Linux and
Mac OS, those files are case sensitive.
So what that means is if you have
all lower case, and you try to refer
to maybe an extension that's all upper
case, those files are not the same.
Except Windows doesn't really care.
So that's really something
to be mindful of, yeah.
Windows honey badger don't care.
>> Speaker 1: So to navigate to
a different directory, we would use cd,
which I showed in the slide before.
Stands for change directory.
On Windows we would use chdir.
So a little bit of a more
of verbose command.
If we wanted to move up one directory, and
I could do a quick demo of this for
you guys.
>> Speaker 1: So here is Brian's terminal.
We can go ahead and use some of
those commands that we learned.
So pwd will tell us
that we're currently in
the /Users/brian/talks/intro-to-webdev
directory.
If I wanted to see what the contents of
this directory were, I could type ls,
and I could see that we have some
files and some folders here.
If I wanted to use a flag,
this ls command accepts a flag, -l.
So this is sending in
an option to this ls command.
So, -l means I want this stuff as a list.
And even though we're
running the same commands,
we're getting the information
back in a different format.
So to move up one directory,
you type in this cd command, and
you follow it by two spaces.
So now, if we do our pwd again,
we'll see that instead of being
intro-to-webdev-app followed by the app
folder, we've moved up one directory back.
So we hopped up to the parent directory.
Does this make sense to everyone?
Yeah, all right.
>> Speaker 1: So
this is a really important slide.
And relative versus absolute paths is
something you'll just come across over and
over and over again in web development.
So a relative path is
a path that starts from
the point in the directory
structure that you are in,
while an absolute path means it starts
all the way from the beginning.
So let's go back to our terminal.
And we'll go back up one directory.
We'll do our directory listing.
So here Brian has a bunch of different
folders that I represented in pink.
If I wanted to get at something that
was in the files folder from this point
in our directory structure,
which we can see via pwd, so
we're in Users/brian/talks,
we can just say files, whatever.
Like whatever file is in here,
we can access it from here.
And the important thing to note
here is there is no forward slash
at the beginning of files.
If I wanted to get to this file from
anywhere else in the tree structure,
and know that I was always
starting from the root,
you would type this forward slash first.
And that forward slash is just the root
of all the files here on the Mac.
So if I navigate to here and
list my files, we'll see everything.
We got our applications folder,
the library folders, the users.
So, from here, to access that talks
directory, we would do Users/brian/talks,
and then we would do files and
access anything in that files directory.
So, that's providing the whole path.
>> Speaker 1: When you're
doing web development,
a lot of times you'll be trying to access
files and directories in a relative way.
So in your web app, for example, you'll
have a public folder that might have
a js folder with all your JavaScript files
or an images folder with all your images.
And so you would say, I want image,
and so I would do images,
then the forward slash, which means the
folder, and then access the file in there.
Does that make sense to everyone?
Yeah?
Cool.
>> Speaker 2: Someone once explained to me
relative paths versus absolute paths as
addresses, right?
An absolute address is like
she lives on 200 Main Street.
If you know exactly where to go,
I could say from anywhere in the city,
go to 200 Main.
It doesn't matter where you are,
200 Main is the same spot.
But if I'm giving you directions like go
down to the gas station, take a left and
then take a right,
that is relative to where you are.
And if you get that same direction
in another part of the city,
it's no longer true.
So that's relative from where you are and
where you're going.
>> Speaker 1: Yeah, I really like
that analogy, that's a good one.
Yeah?
>> Speaker 3: Is anybody else having
trouble with the dir command on Windows,
saying command not found?
I don't know if when you
mentioned to open git,
did you have them open
git bash on Windows?
>> Speaker 1: So
just a quick note on that.
If they're using git bash,
git bash is smart.
And they can go ahead and
use the Linux style commands in git bash.
>> Speaker 3: But then I think
the Windows ones won't work, right?
>> Speaker 1: Right.
>> Speaker 3: And
I think we might be-
>> Speaker 2: So if you're on Windows and
you want to use the Windows commands open
the cmd.exe on your Windows computer.
>> Speaker 1: If you are on Windows and
want to use the Unix style commands
you can do those in git bash.
>> Speaker 1: So here's a visual
kind of directory structure.
Someone there is trying to hide something.
But if I wanted to do
an absolute path to c.html,
I would do forward slash WWW,
forward slash the name of this bottom
folder, which is cut off here,
forward slash c.html.
Now if I was here in this XXX folder and
I wanted to access
b.html I could just type b.html and
I'd be there.